Thus far you'll learn a bit how async data works with dummy data but still with asynchronous code.
Now what's happening right now is on our page.
If we never get around reloaded navigate to the block we constantly have to wait for data to be fetched.
We constantly have to wait for new requests being made to a server.
Now this might be what you want because maybe all your pages use very different data but sometimes you
also want to fetch data and load it into your view x store so that you can use it in the rest of your
application let's say be there because you want to shorten the loading times or because you somehow
in your application need that data outside of the component where you loaded it and you want to conveniently
have it in the store.
So let me show you how you load data into the view x store instead of just loading it in the component
and afford it.
We of course need a US store.
So let's see how we can add one adding new X to next JSA apps.
Is super simple.
You don't have to install the dependency.
It's already built in.
You have to add some files as so often the next cheapest configuration happens for a few files.
If you want to really use it you have two different modes of which you can choose the first one is classic
mode day or you simply create the index dot J as fall in a storage folder in your root next project
and then you have one store and one module for the entire app.
You can then add mutations actions and Patersons onto the index.
Fall the alternative fisty modules mode.
If you have more data that goes into your store you want to create multiple dot J.S. files in the store
folder where the name in front of dot G-S becomes the name of the module and you have namespace modules.
Now check the official U.S. stocks or my entire view course if you want to learn more about us modules
essentially that allows you to slice your story up into different modules so that you don't end up with
one gigantic index that just fall but that you have multiple smaller files you still define mutations
and so on.
But in the different dot as follows for the given module.
Now let's add a story and see this in action to create a store.
The simplest thing we can do is we can go to the store folder create it if you don't have it and the
index thought she has far to use that classic mode in that file.
You first of all need to import Buick's from view X..
You don't need to run NPM install or anything like that though.
It already ships with next year.
You should create a function.
And I'm just using a syntax where a store a function a constant which you can name as you want but only
create store because that is what it will do.
It will create a store.
And here I'm using an arrow function.
Now why do we create a function instead of just an object which represents the store because it should
be callable by next which will be executed on the server.
To set up the store.
So therefore here we return a new x.
Store if we returned an object instead of the function then all users of our app would actually get
the same instance because on the server in node J.S. where does runs.
If we have plain objects stored well then we always get that object for every connected user.
If we have a function that returns and you store as this does then every new user receives his own store
which we of course want especially if we start managing user specific data in a store.
So here we get the Buick's store and it's now initialized with a javascript object where you can set
up your starting state your mutations and so on.
So typically these are the building blocks you have and these are the normal building blocks you have
in any of us store.
There's nothing special about the next version.
It is the normal package in the end.
So in year we could have our loaded posts which is an empty array initially and then we could have a
mutation where we have set posts there we received to state and some payload which could be our posts
and the end does Meffert can be executed by us and there we could set the state loaded posts equal to
posts which I assumed to be an array.
We can then also have an action set posts and in that action we could commit this nutation.
Now as you probably know in view X your actions receive a special object which you can alter name context
or to make it less confusing.
Let's name it view x context and this will have a couple of helpful methods.
One of them is to commit method which you can execute to commit a mutation.
You passed the mutation name as a string.
So set posts refers to this mutation and then an optional payload here that could be posts which I also
expect to get as a payload for it is action.
So now we're just forwarding it in the getters here.
We could then return loaded posts here to each Geter we also get the state passed as an argument by
view X automatically and then just return state loaded posts like this so that we can use it in our
components with that load.
Here we can call this action or make discommode here to store and loaded posts in the store.
We cannot just save that file.
However not before exporting as a default export thing to create store method as a default I should
say so create store.
Is that constant we create a fear which holds this factory function giving us a store.
And now we're exporting this as the fall default.
The rest will be handled by next and will automatically inject the story into all our components.
Now we can populated in our pages like here in the posts component's So in the posts folder the next
time you fall here we could add a lifecycle hook maybe create It's a one second Capone it was created
we could then access this dollar sign store this patch set posts like this and pass this loaded posts
our array of loaded posts which we load through async data to to store it.
This will run once the component has been initialized.
Now let's see if that works.
Let's go to that post page and let's reload it.
And now how do we find out if it worked.
Well maybe you got the view developer tools installed.
Then it's really easy because there you can look into your Buick's store and there you see we have a
base state where actually the loaded posts are part off the state off the store.
If you don't have that installed you don't want to install it simply console lock to store after you
dispatched it or simply console log this store getters loaded posts to refer to your data or once you
dispatched it.
If you do this you also see that console lock with your data.
So this is working.
It is not the best way we can do this though.
This will initialize our store and maybe this is all we need.
But we can also ensure that this runs on the server.
The page is loaded for the first time and that we initialize our store instead of calling async data
here.
Let me show you how this works in the next lecture.